W-22219984-ch2-api-endpoints-kt (#411)
mulesoft/docs-hosting: cloudhub-2/modules/ROOT/pages/ch2-api.adoc

= CloudHub 2.0 API

> CloudHub 2.0 provides two APIs that enable you to programmatically manage your CloudHub 2.0 resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Programmatically manage your CloudHub 2.0 resources with two APIs:
```

*CloudHub 2.0 API*::
Manages infrastructure-level resources, such as:
+
* Manage private spaces:

> ** List available TCP ports for a private space.

Reviewer: (Globally) Only complete sentences should have final periods. 
```suggestion
** List available TCP ports for a private space
```

** Retrieve availability zones and AWS account information.
** Upgrade a private space.
* Manage VPC endpoints (Private Link):
** Create, list, update, and delete VPC endpoints.
** Get VPC endpoint details and provisioning status.
* Manage VPNs:
** Update VPN settings (for example, enable VPN logs).
* Manage transit gateways:
** Delete a transit gateway from the organization.
* Manage schedulers:
** Reset the scheduler configuration for a specific flow.

*Application Manager API*::
Manages application-level resources, such as:
+
* Deploy and update applications with TCP port mapping.

> For an interactive reference that includes supported resources, methods, required properties, and expected responses, see the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/cloudhub-20-api/[CloudHub 2.0 API] and the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/amc-application-manager/[Application Manager API] on Exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an interactive reference that includes supported resources, methods, required properties, and expected responses, see https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/cloudhub-20-api/[CloudHub 2.0 API] and https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/amc-application-manager/[Application Manager API] on Exchange.
```

These APIs manage only applications and infrastructure deployed to CloudHub 2.0.

> To manage CloudHub 1.0 resources, see the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/cloudhub-api/[CloudHub API].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manage CloudHub 1.0 resources, see https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/cloudhub-api/[CloudHub API].
```

== Base URLs

Each API uses a different base URL:

[%header,cols="30,70"]
|===
|API |Base URL
|CloudHub 2.0 API |`+https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/runtimefabric/api+`
|Application Manager API |`+https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/amc/application-manager/api/v2+`
|===

== Use the CloudHub 2.0 APIs

You can use any HTTP client with the CloudHub 2.0 APIs.

To access operations, you must:

. Generate an authorization bearer token to authenticate with the API.
+
Follow the instructions from xref:access-management::saml-bearer-token.adoc[Anypoint identity] or https://help.salesforce.com/s/articleView?id=001115323&type=1[external identity] to get a bearer access token for your Anypoint organization.
+
The token owner must have the appropriate permissions for the resources being managed. For example, managing private spaces requires private space management permissions.
. Get the organization ID.
+

> See the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/access-management-api/minor/1.0/console/method/%234250/[`/api/me`] endpoint in the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/access-management-api/minor/1.0/pages/home/[Access Management API].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/access-management-api/minor/1.0/console/method/%234250/[`/api/me`] endpoint in https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/access-management-api/minor/1.0/pages/home/[Access Management API].
```

. Get the environment ID.
+

> See the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/access-management-api/minor/1.0/console/method/%234762/[`/api/organizations/__ORG_ID__/environments`] endpoint in the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/access-management-api/minor/1.0/pages/home/[Access Management API].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/access-management-api/minor/1.0/console/method/%234762/[`/api/organizations/__ORG_ID__/environments`] endpoint in https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/f1e97bc6-315a-4490-82a7-23abe036327a.anypoint-platform/access-management-api/minor/1.0/pages/home/[Access Management API].
```
